Inarizaki                                                                                                        Karasuno
Inarizaki seems to be adding
their captain, Kita Shinsuke, back in.
Are they strengthening their defense?
I believe so.
Inarizaki seems stronger, defensively
and mentally, when he's on the court.
I probably shouldn't be the
one to bring this up, but...
What?
Wouldn't putting me back in
right now be passively defensive?
Huh? Wha?! This is my best offensive attack!
The Miyas are totally on point today.
So if I'm putting you in, it means
that the last thing they should do
is step on the brakes.
We Don't Need the Memories
Inarizaki High School Volleyball Club
To be honest, I don't like that motto.
It's not like the path
is only in front of us.
Focusing and being rash
are two different things.
I don't understand guys like them at all.
But...
Watching them does make my heart stir.
I'm not a player that can
change the flow of things,
I'm pretty sure we could've
pulled that off.
but I feel like I need to watch the backs
of these guys who just keep running ahead.
Let it go. You messed that
up when we were kids.
Pretty sure I can do it now.
You're probably in the same boat.
Haikyu
Episode 23: The Birth of the Serene King
Got it!
One more! One more!
Nice kill, Rintaro!
We Don't Need the Memories
Nice kill, Rintaro! Jump, jump, Rintaro!
Looks like you don't have enough stamina.
Probably.
It's coming back.
Free ball!
Got it!
Synchronized attack!
We're not syncing.
The quick didn't go through.
That mistake's gotta hurt for Karasuno.
Inarizaki                                                                   Karasuno
Damn it! It was too high.
Sorry—
Could you not apologize?
I just didn't jump high enough.
Always jumping with the intention
of hitting the ball over...
Always making sure there's a good
distance for the approach...
Hinata always does this?
Actually, even more than this?
Shut up.
I estimated wrong. It's my mistake.
It's amazing how much you don't
seem like you mean any of that.
So can you do this?
Of course.
We're gonna get the next one!
Yeah!
I'm pretty sure you could've
followed up on that last one.
Let's nail this one!
Serving for Karasuno is Azumane Asahi.
He's definitely one of their
best servers,
but I'd say he's only been nailing
about half of his serves today.
Things are still up in the air.
Well, their opponents do have the lead
in the last part of the final set.
I'm pretty sure he's feeling even
more pressure than he's used to.
One hundred percent...
Bring it!
He did it! Azumane Asahi,
showing us why he's the ace!
That's a no-touch ace!
Nice, nice, Asahi! Push it, push it,
Asahi! One more time!
Good job, samurai boy!
Kick-ass serve!
Damn those geezers!
The Karasuno samurai...
He probably starts off at around
80 percent, and then gradually
gets more and more powerful
throughout the match,
letting loose his full power
in the final part of the final set.
Man, I'm hungry, Samu!
Same here, Tsumu.
One more time!
Shinsuke!
Nice receive!
The captain, Kita, bumped that
powerful serve up beautifully.
I have no idea if I could've
gotten that, damn it.
Who's Miya Atsumu going to use?
Please come together...
for a powerful two-man block!
Yes!
Cover!
Got it!
Nice receive!
Man, what the hell?
This is definitely it!
Wait, he's in the back
row right now, isn't he?
Right now...
Every single time, "now" is
the best chance we've got!
Twins' quick...
...minus tempo...
reverse!
Nice follow-through!
I don't want to lose...
We won't lose.
We're not going to stop yet.
Now, just watch me get the next one!
"I don't want to lose." "We have to win."
How could we be so naïve?
Victory and defeat... Those are just results!
Our concept doesn't change.
This point right now...
...is what we're fighting for.
Synchronized attack!
During their match with Shiratorizawa,
they didn't attack from
the back a single time.
It just happened once today as a
surprise attack to cut off Atsumu's serves.
What's the point in doing an attack when
you're abandoning your position as backup?
I'm not here to protect my teammates.
Each and every one of us
is here to score!
We Don't Need the Memories
Inarizaki                                                                   Karasuno
Yeah!
Karasuno managed to grab hold of
the distant Inarizaki from behind!
Yeah!
The goddess of victory turns
her eyes toward Karasuno!
Nice, nice, Kei! Push it, push it,
Kei! One more time!
Karasuno
Karasuno takes the lead!
Things seemed pretty grim after they
couldn't score after Hinata-kun's save.
Ever since that time out,
It seems like Karasuno is over
whatever was dragging them down.
Damn, that was high.
Inarizaki's not wasting
any time catching back up.
I think these eight seconds are my
second favorite, after chow time.
Cover!
Kageyama, get the last!
He definitely went after their setter.
Osamu!
Hey, it's what they did earlier.
Nah... I can't imagine they'd try that
unreliable quick again so soon.
They're definitely going to do it.
You think so, too, don't you?
One and a half blockers!
Inarizaki                                                                 Karasuno
Inarizaki High takes the lead back again!
One more!
Nice kill!
Not bad, Samu!
Right?!
Yeah!
Looks like the Karasuno
blockers were distracted
by Atsumu-kun on the right for a bit.
I see.
I'm sure they're exhausted,
physically as well as mentally.
Damn, I want some carbs right now.
Tanaka-san!
Three blockers!
Nice kill!
Yes, yes, yes! Great job!
Yeah!
Tsukishima and Hinata still
aren't the best servers,
so they're probably going to give up
a point during this rotation.
But that being the case,
if they're able to score here...
Aran!
Got it!
Gotta touch it...
Gotta touch it, gotta touch it,
gotta touch it, gotta touch it...
And no one expected that setter dump!
Hell yeah!
Hey! Snap out of it!
There's no time for regrets!
Right when Inarizaki's
Kita moves to the front,
they're returning Ginjima to the court.
Nice serve.
Yes!
From a powerful serve to Ginjima
slamming it down for the point!
Yeah!
Looks like Inarizaki's
going for the checkmate!
Inarizaki                                                                                    Karasuno
Nice kill, Hitoshi!
Nice kill, Hitoshi! Push it, push it,
Hitoshi! One more time!
We're gonna stay calm.
We'll get that point!
Concentrate!
Damn it, you've got this!
It doesn't matter if you're tired!
It doesn't matter how
strong your opponent is!
Who the hell cares if you're
already doing your best?
Try harder, damn it!
This is...
Inarizaki                                                        Karasuno
This is crazy. It feels weird.
I think I'm actually on a roll.
I feel like I'm seeing blocks
better than I usually do.
Maybe that's why...
That's why my instincts are
telling me not to go any harder.
Kageyama...
I'm gonna swallow my pride
and ask you to do this.
Cut back on how many sets
you send my way for a bit.
No.
Inarizaki                                                                                                        Karasuno
Cover!
Tanaka-san!
Kageyama!
Karasuno follows one quick with another!
But Ojiro managed to get the ball up!
Can someone follow through?
They're not gonna be able
to get a decent attack.
Scary...
Both setters are some of
the best in the nation!
They're showing off some insane moves!
Inarizaki                                                        Karasuno
No.
We need your attacks, Tanaka-san.
That...
That wasn't him trying to
make me feel better...
Kageyama!
It's normal not to know
what others are thinking.
You need to know the current state of
the game and your teammates' conditions.
Ever since the end of the first set, Tanaka-san
definitely hasn't been doing bad at all.
He's been staying calm even
at times he'd usually go crazy.
That insane cut shot he
pulled off was amazing, too.
But is that really Tanaka-san's best weapon?
Everyone on our team is strong,
as they should be.
No, that's not for me to decide.
After connecting so many insane attacks,
even at the end of this match, with long rallies,
recovering from messed-up receives...
It's not too short, not too long,
not too close or too far.
A beautiful toss stretches over our side.
Send it further... to the very edge.
I need to give my spikers options!
Ever since that insane cut shot,
it's subtle, but the blockers are
definitely shifting for a cross.
The other path that Tanaka
pried open for us...
That wasn't him trying
to make me feel better...
All of this trust that he's put in me...
I'm going to see it through!
An insanely sharp line shot!
Fly
I can't believe how sharp that line shot was!
Yeah!
Tanaka Ryunosuke makes his
presence known once again!
That really was an insane straight
shot right onto the line!
His positioning suggested
another cross, but...
Nice, Ryu!
Nice toss!
Nice kill.
Where... Where the hell'd Goody Two-Shoes go?
What the hell happened in
this short amount of time?
Karasuno High School's Tanaka Ryunosuke
just sliced through Inarizaki's
defense with that shot!
That guy's weird.
Ma-kun, shh!
Haikyu!!
Inarizaki                                                                   Karasuno
Karasuno shows no signs of slowing down,
but Inarizaki's at match point.
A service error or a serve
that's too easy to receive...
will mean that Karasuno loses.
I know I don't need to guard my head, but...
I still want to protect the back of my head!
Seriously, what the hell's his deal?
Fly
Did you see those nerves of steel?!
His unbreakable concentration!
An amazing service ace that
ties them up once again!
Way to go, Kageyama Tobio!
Yes!
This is going beyond amazing to annoying.
Bring it!
Seriously...
His game today...
Up front!
At the very last possible second,
Kageyama seemed to know exactly
what the receivers were thinking,
and drops the serve up front!
Free ball!
With lightning speed, Karasuno
gets one right down the middle!
Yeah!
They knew their opponents
were thrown off their game!
Inarizaki                                                                            Karasuno
What an incredibly fast hit down the middle!
Now Karasuno's nearing checkmate!
Nice receive!
You're only the ace if you
can attack and defend!
They knew exactly what they were
doing there! Ginjima scores on the left.
I'm pretty sure they're all exhausted by now,
but they didn't give the blockers even
the slightest hint. What a beautiful set.
Even though we're at the
very end of the game,
he's not thrown off at all,
and he seems to know what they're thinking.
Did you see Atsumu-kun's set?
That guy's definitely a genius...
It's painful playing the
same position as him.
Kageyama's serves are crazy, too.
Man, I wish I had talent, too.
I don't remember when, but I was asked...
"You're not a starter,"
"so isn't it hard to have such a genius player
who's younger than you on the same team?"
I'm not sure what qualifies
as a "genius," but...
I understood what they were trying to say.
There happen to be people who think
that someone like Atsumu was just
born a talented player. But...
Everything I do every day,
from a scale of one to ten,
guys like Atsumu do on a
scale of one to twenty.
Or it's a more effective ten,
or a denser ten.
And sometimes, instead of one to ten,
they try things from A to Z.
That's what goes through their heads.
Even if they mess up sometimes,
or they're hated by strangers,
or cast out... even if they completely ignore
something we'd consider important...
They just have to do it.
Even if they start coughing up blood,
they're the guys who just wanna keep running.
One touch!
There are plenty of guys in this
world who we're no match for,
and it's natural to find
people like that amazing.
I think being able to dive headfirst
into things is a talent in and of itself,
and it doesn't matter what you call them.
And it's not like genius is an insult...
But if you're thinking they're
geniuses from the start,
that just means you've lost before
you even had a match with them.
And it's rude.
Sorry, it's long!
Karasuno manages to get another one!
What a long rally!
A rally of sheer willpower!
Damn it... Just five more centimeters...
You should be able to reach that!
Jump higher! Reach!
Damn it!
His foot!
Hinata Shoyo shows incredible
balance and skill!
Inarizaki                                                                                                        Karasuno
Karasuno somehow manages to stop
Inarizaki from getting a break point!
Wow, I'm sure Hinata-kun messes
around with the ball all the time.
Damn it! Don't get exhausted now!
I know you didn't mean anything by it.
Sorry for going on that rant.
No, uh... I think it'd be worse
if I said that without thinking.
Damn it, my brain is gonna be sore tonight.
Complain, damn it!
Complain? Why?
Gimme the next one, too!
I thought Kageyama had nothing
to be scared of anymore.
But...
It's not just the enemy that can
push you beyond your limits.
I'm moved, Shoyo-kun.
Episode 24: Monsters' Ball
Next time, "Monsters' Ball."